This is where we will write out and edit the project proposal.


Writing Guidelines (from the email)
A typical proposal is 3-4 pages in length, and contains: 
1.      The title of the project, your name, your student number and your supervisor's name. 
2.      A clear statement of the objectives of the project. 
3.      A brief background of the project. 
4.      A brief description of what you are going to do. 
5.      A discussion of how the project relates to the degree program of each student.
6.      A description of the method(s) you are going to use in solving the problem. 
7.      A proposed timetable for completion of the project including major intermediate milestones. 
8.      A list of special components and facilities that you require


Common shortcomings(from the site):
At this early stage, you may not know enough about the project, especially if the idea is your supervisor's. Use the proposal as motivation for getting a good start on your project. 
Aim towards:
  1.being able to describe in your own words what your project is about, and
  2.preparing a methodical breakdown or sequence of steps that represents your plan for performing your work.










Monitoring of Honey Bee Beehives Humidity and Temperature Levels to Predict Best Suitable; 
Materials, Location, and Construction for Maximum Hive Efficiency and Health

Adam Berg - 100978623
Benjamin Buttera - 100934778

Our idea is related to area of beekeeping. Since there is a great shortage of wild honey bees and it is commonly known their immense 
involvement and impact on the environment. As well many countries are starting to heavily push the support of local beekeeping. Adam 
has had experience with the subject as he amateurly beekeep’s and has a total of 6 hives. This would be suitable to be done in Ottawa 
as it is predominant here and the surrounding region.  
A large issue concerning properly maintaining bees is the regularity of humidity and temperature in the hive. A too humid hive can lead 
to rot and mildew growth, harming the bees, and can spoil the honey. As well a hive needs to be approximately 35 degrees Celsius for 
proper growth of the larvae.  
Without getting too into the details its simply overall important to maintain these two factors in a beehive and there is a lot a 
beekeeper can do help maintain these levels; for example, providing more insulation in the winter, modifying the location of the 
hive (sunny/shade or in a wind prone spot). It would be advantageous for a beekeeper to know simply for instance, that one of their 
hives is running a few degrees too cold. A simple discrepancy between humidity/temperature ranges can lead to a loss of 
a hive, especially during critical stages like in the Winter. It would be overall beneficial to the environment with the current lack 
of bees, to be run more optimally and efficient, as well make beekeeping easier to attract new members.  
A lot of beekeeping is done as a hobby and by elderly citizens. Therefore, the process is somewhat primitive in nature; in terms of 
the wood used to construct the hive, materials used for insulation, location of hives and so forth. A lot of the practices being done 
are simply by what is common and heard from the word of mouth. The Ontario Beekeeping Association (OBA) has data of current members 
and their colonies die-off levels. If a member has minimal hive loss, their process is deemed worthy to be copied by others. There 
is not much of hard data that is being collected to know proper statistics in successful methods, which can range widely in different 
regions. 
An Arduino controlling multiple humidity and temperature sensors can be set up to record the humidity and temperature inside and 
outside of a hive. Preferably of multiple hives, and at varying beekeeper locations. This data can lead to knowing perhaps which 
construction/location/etc methods are the most successful at maintaining proper humidity/temperature levels in hives. The app 
development part of the project can be used to collect data from the Arduino when visiting the hive, perhaps through Bluetooth, 
avoiding the need to disturb the hive (this is imperative in the winter months where opening the hive can allow the entry of cold 
air and break the bees wax insulation of the cracks in the wood). The web development can be used to store this data and of other 
beekeepers in the region.  
